---
layout: post
title:  Week 11 Blog - Recommender System And Continuous Deployment
author: Marc Laffan
date:   2016-07-27 23:00:00 +0100
---

In this post we will discuss λ Lovelace's progress on the following:

* Recommender System
* Continuous Deployment
* Challenges & Next Tasks

### Recommender System

As mentioned in the previous blog entry, the recommender system had to be de-coupled from the Twitter API so that tweets could be retrieved from the database and used in place. This resulted in the creation of the "RecommenderTextual.py" class. This class is essentially a stripped-down version of the recommender system thus far, now with some additions that the previous version did not have. For example, this version now takes tweet age into account and weighs tweets lower based on their age. A tweet can still rank highly based on their content, but a tweet that is almost a week old has virtually no chance of appearing in the users feed.

Tweet age weight is calculated as the age of the tweet (in seconds, from the "created_at" attribute) divided by the number of seconds in a week. The result is then divided by the max scale that is used for the term frequency document (10.0 at time of writing). The decision to normalise the age of tweets using the number of seconds in a week was an arbitrary decision made before any testing was performed on how this will affect user experience. This value will likely change, as the seconds-in-a-week value came from the week-old tweet limit that twitter imposes on third-party developers. As our tweets should not be much older than a week in the immediate future, this value will be fine for now. Testing is required to figure out the ideal timespan to weigh tweets over. 

Another addition to this version of the recommender system is that it takes hashtags into account for the term-frequency document, and currently weighs them double the amount that a regular term is worth. This allows the recommender system to lend more importance to hashtags over regular terms, but the value of hashtags can be changed based on testing outcomes if necessary.

Lastly, punctuation and casing have been stripped from all terms added to the term frequency document. This allows for terms such as "Twitter!" and "Twitter..." to all fall under the umbrella term "twitter" for term frequency document purposes.

##### Continuous Deployment


### Challenges & Next Tasks

- **Recommender System**: Next steps for the recommender system will involve the implementation of the "like/dislike" feedback functionality into the recommender system. Plans so far include placing any likes/dislikes into the same document/stored location as the tweet itself, so that it appears as an attribute of the tweet in the database, albeit one that is added by us. From here the likes/dislikes can influence the weighting of tweets. Testing is required to evaluate which method of implementing the like/dislike feedback is most effective for users, as the effect can either be immediate (One dislike immediately drops the value of all keywords in the term frequency document) or gradual (Immediate affect, but to a much less harsh degree. This would require more feedback over time and is the "safer" approach).

- **iOS App**: 

- **Continuous Deployment**: 

- **Celery + Twitter API**:

Until next time, on behalf of λ Lovelace.  
\- *Marc Laffan*
